Want to be a part of an exciting opportunity
to save the planet, feed the world, and make
some cash? Want to get in on the ground floor
of a revolutionary re-imagining of epic proportions?
Are you a problem-solver with earth-shattering-innovations to offer?
Then answer the call of the NutrientRecycling Challenge $30K giveaway, brought to you by such
movers and shakers as the EPA,USDA, WWF, NMPF, WERF, ASABE…[mumbles..a couple more word salads]
AND BEN & JERRY’s ice cream!! I know! I’m excited too!
What’s that you say? What IS nutrient recycling?
Well, let me tell you! It’s… it’s…
trying to do something with all the poo…there’s
too much poo.
Hi it's Emily from Bite Size Vegan and welcome
to another vegan nugget. If there’s one
sure constant in this world, it’s that everyone
poops. And while discussion of poo is a social
taboo (couldn’t help myself) and some people
act like theirs doesn’t stink—a sure sign
they’re full of it—the biggest deuce denial
of all is that surrounding the most monumental
poo-producers of all time: farmed animals.
In the United States, for example—which
is surprisingly not number one in number two—it
is estimated that livestock animals produce
130 times more waste than the human population—almost
1.4 billion tons [1.2–1.37]. That comes
out to roughly 5 tons of farmed animal waste
per U.S. citizen.
With animal excrement piling up in the U.S.
alone at an alarming-yet impressive rate of
116,000 lbs/sec, [52,616.715kg] meaning 7
million pounds/minute [3,175,146.6kg], it’s
safe to say we’re a bit up the proverbial
creek without a paddle.
This astronomical amount of toxic waste is
100 times more concentrated than raw human
sewage and more than 500 times more concentrated
than treated human sewage, making it important
to note that no treatment facilities exist
nor are required for livestock waste.
The greatest offenders of all are pig and
dairy farms, with a 2,500-head dairy cattle
operation producing a waste load similar to
a city of 61,000 people, and the 35.1 million
pigs slaughtered in 2015 by a single pork
producer, Smithfield Farms, accounting for
a very conservative estimate of 95.2 billion
pounds [95,191,200,000lb / 43,178,002,011.144
kg] pounds of pig poo. Check out this video
for a showcase of Smithfield shoveling it
on pretty thick with their public relations
pork propaganda.
But where you may see a devastating health
hazard of ground water contamination, air
pollution, and antibiotic-resistant-pathogen
proliferation, causing everything from respiratory
illnesses to decreased lung function, to cardiovascular
ailments and even premature death, or perhaps
an environmental nightmare of nitrogen-flooded
ocean dead zones, habitat destruction, and
decimation of streams, tributaries, and wetlands,
the Environmental Protection Agency and
it’s crew of—shockingly—pig and dairy
farmers see opportunity!
See, it’s not toxic waste, it’s “animal
manure containing valuable nutrients.”
It’s not a mounting global crisis, it’s
“a tremendous opportunity to generate environmental
and economic benefits from manure.”
And it’s definitely not about the legal
trouble industry leaders face with repeat
violations of the Clean Water or Clean Air
Acts, because obviously they’re launching
this exciting challenge together with the
EPA and USDA, the very organizations charged
with regulating their illegal activities.
So obviously, everything’s great!
They’re not irresponsible entities pawning
off their problems, they’re “the Seekers.”
And you’re not doing their job for them
at a fraction of a fraction of a fraction
of a fraction of their salaries, you have
the honor of being a “Solver.”
[Thank goodness for euphemisms, the potpourri
of vocabulary, perfect for masking the smell
of impropriety!]
And certainly don’t worry about the fact
that this miraculous manure, or nutrient goldmine,
as it were, is typically a completely unbalanced
fertilizer for plants, containing far too
much phosphorous.
And most of all, don’t be intimidated by
the enormity of the problem, nor the fact
that it long ago hit the proverbial fan.
All you have to do is suggest something better
than the current system. Which is basically
storing slurry in giant swimming pools of
sewage called lagoons before literally launching
it straight up into the air in glorious fecal
fountains that put Las Vegas to shame and
shower local residents with a refreshing mist
of eau de poo. In other words, the bar is
low.
While phase I of submissions has already passed,
the implementation of the lucky winners is
yet to come. So hold onto the edge of your
toilet seat—I know I will—to see where
the excitement will lead!
While the United States is the only country
I’m aware of that’s created an official
challenge for dealing with it’s crap—which
is, after all, the American way given our
obsession with reality TV—yet another unstoppable
influx of sh-ining examples of brilliant entertainment!—before
you lay the stink of the world at America’s
back door, it’s important to note that this
is a global issue. From the gut of Germany,
through the intestines of India, and fecal
channels of China, into the bowels of Brazil,
past the colon of Columbia, to the nether
regions of the Netherlands, and out the a—nus
of America, animals are everywhere, and every
one of them poops.
Now if you think this is just some craptastic
video that I’m pulling out of my—well,
y’know—rest assured that I’m nothing
if not anal about my fecal facts.
Because regardless of the brevity of this
bowel-movement-homage, I spent many hours
performing a virtual investigative colonoscopy
on the waste management world to ensure this
sh-ow was tight. I’d encourage you to check
out the blog post linked in the video description,
where you’ll find links to my own mountain
of shi-mmering citations and resources. And
if you want to help me make more quality crap,
feel free to join the Nugget Army where we
shoot the sh- we schmooze on a regular basis.
I’d love to hear your thoughts on this steaming
pile of a project proposal in the comments
below. Just dump em’ right down there. Really
let it all go. If you liked this admittedly
corny nugget (okay that’s a bit much), give
the video a thumbs up and spread it around
with the fury of the factory farm fecal fountains
themselves! And subscribe for more vegan crap
every Monday, Wednesday, and some Fridays!
Now go live vegan, call the industry on it’s—you
know by now—and I’ll see you soon!
This is where they spray animal waste on us. This is about eight feet from my mother's house.
You think it's raining.
We don't open the doors or the windows, but the odor still comes in. It takes your breath away.
Subtitles by the Amara.org community